Added custom-raw-tokens utility (#2038)
DFHack/dfhack: docs/Lua API.rst

To avoid confusion, these methods cannot be redefined.

.. _custom-raw-tags:

custom-raw-tags
===============

> A module for reading custom tags added to the raws by mods.

Reviewer: Sorry for my ignorance on this, but can this module be used to read vanilla (non-mod-added) tags in the raws? Is it useful to be able to read vanilla tags? Do vanilla tags even exist?

Author: It can actually read vanilla tags, I've been using CASTE_NAME for a lot of my testing. Is it useful (otherwise) to read vanilla tags? No, I highly doubt it. The "raw struct" should have all the information already outside of its raw strings. And I don't really understand the question "do vanilla tags even exist?" lol, vanilla tags are ones that are used by the game and don't throw errors.

Author: I'm not really sure if there was a change you wanted me to make, but, `A module for reading custom tags added to the raws by mods. Can also read vanilla tags if requested.` is this more on-point?

Reviewer: I meant, are tags just a mod thing or are they used by vanilla as well, but I understand from your response that tags are common in the raws, it's just that the information from those tags are already accessible in c++ and lua via the generated struct definitions, so it's not likely that anyone would need to use this module to read vanilla tags.  No need to add anything about vanilla tags to the docs, then.

    if customRawTags.getTag(reaction, "CAUSES_INSANITY") then
        -- make unit who performed reaction go insane

* Using an eventful onProjItemCheckMovement hook, a fast or slow-firing crossbow::

    -- check projectile distance flown is zero, get firer, etc...
    local multiplier = tonumber(customRawTags.getTag(bow.subtype, "FIRE_RATE_MULTIPLIER")) or 1
    firer.counters.think_counter = firer.counters.think_counter * multiplier

* Something for a script that prints help text about different types of units::

    local unit = dfhack.gui.getSelectedUnit()
    if not unit then return end
    local raceRaw = df.global.world.raws.creatures.all[unit.race]
    local helpText = customRawTags.getTag(raceRaw, "HELP_TEXT")
    if helpText then print(helpText) end

* Healing armour::

    -- (per unit every tick)
    local healAmount = 0
    for _, entry in ipairs(unit.inventory) do
        if entry.mode == 2 then -- Worn
            healAmount = healAmount + tonumber((customRawTags.getTag(entry.item.subtype, "HEAL_AMOUNT")) or 0)
        end
    end
    unit.body.blood_count = math.min(unit.body.blood_max, unit.body.blood_count + healAmount)

> The cache is cleared when a map is unloaded.

Reviewer: since we removed references to the cache above, and since the cache no longer has potentially unexpected side effects, maybe remove this note too.

To avoid confusion, these methods cannot be redefined.

> customRawData

Author: Oh, sorry. And how about `custom-raw-tags`? That's hyphenated, and explains that it's for custom and not vanilla tags. Though, data... nah, tags is fine. Advanced raw constructs (if there are any left) are still tags.

> customRawData

Author: Well, I can't use `custom-raws-tags` in the examples, though, since syntax.

=============

A utility allowing for custom tags to be added to the raw definitions for modding purposes:

* ``customRawData.getTag(typeDefinition, tag[, ...])``

  Where ``typeDefinition`` is a raw struct as seen in ``df.global.world.raws``, e.g:

>   ``dfhack.gui.getSelectedItem().subtype``, ``tag`` is the name of the custom tag you

Author: For most it's a pointer, not an int. E.g. https://github.com/DFHack/df-structures/blob/master/df.items.xml#L1224. The way it's set up currently is that subtypes are acquired manually for what you want to specifically read from. A raw struct is a type definition with raws and all that, I guess. Maybe just calling them type definitions

>   ``dfhack.gui.getSelectedItem().subtype``, ``tag`` is the name of the custom tag you

Author: They're called raw structures once here https://github.com/DFHack/dfhack/blob/develop/docs/changelog.txt#L1162, though

  want to get, and the remaining arguments correspond to the arguments in the tag as
  booleans denoting whether the argument in the tag is a string or a number. ``true``
  for string, false (or absent) for number. It will then be returned using single or
  multiple return values. If the tag is not present, the result is false, if it is

>   present but has no arguments, the result is true.

Reviewer: will the caller always know whether to expect strings or numbers for a particular tag? can we always return numbers if they are numbers and let the caller convert them to strings if desired? alternately, can we just always return strings and let the caller convert the numbers if they know to expect numbers? either way it would solve the issue of the cache returning unexpected types.

Author: Hmm... sure, okay. I'll remove the bool business.

* ``customRawData.getRaceCasteTag(raceDefinition, casteNumber, tag[, ...])``

>   Gets tag from a race or caste instead if appplicable. Everything with getTag applies to this.

Reviewer: what is the type of `raceDefinition`? why do we need a separate method for race caste tags? Can this be handled by `getTag()`?

Author: No, it's separate behaviour. Or would you rather the caste business be merged in with if statements?

    if customRawData.getTag(reaction, "CAUSES_INSANITY") then
        -- make unit who performed reaction go insane

* Using an eventful onProjItemCheckMovement hook, a fast or slow-firing crossbow::

    -- check projectile distance flown is zero, get firer, etc...
    local multiplier = customRawData.getTag(bow.subtype, "FIRE_RATE_MULTIPLIER") or 1
    firer.counters.think_counter = firer.counters.think_counter * multiplier

* Something for a script that prints help text about different types of units::

    local unit = dfhack.gui.getSelectedUnit()
    if not unit then return end
    local raceRaw = df.global.world.raws.creatures.all[unit.race]
    local helpText = customRawData.getTag(raceRaw, "HELP_TEXT", true)
    if helpText then print(helpText) end

* Healing armour::

    -- (per unit every tick)
    local healAmount = 0
    for _, entry in ipairs(unit.inventory) do
        if entry.mode == 2 then -- Worn
            healAmount = healAmount + (customRawData.getTag(entry.item.subtype, "HEAL_AMOUNT") or 0)
        end
    end
    unit.body.blood_count = math.min(unit.body.blood_max, unit.body.blood_count + healAmount)

> This also defines a function it uses at ``eventful.onUnload.clearExtractedCustomRawData``

Author: The rationale behind it was to warn users of an exposed function but I will replace it with your text and use a table instead with a comment explaining why.

To avoid confusion, these methods cannot be redefined.

.. _custom-raw-tokens:

custom-raw-tokens

> ===============

Reviewer: This is causing the build error due docs: home/runner/work/dfhack/dfhack/docs/Lua API.rst:2990: WARNING: Title underline too short.

To avoid confusion, these methods cannot be redefined.

.. _custom-raw-tokens:

custom-raw-tokens
=================

A module for reading custom tokens added to the raws by mods.

* ``customRawTokens.getToken(typeDefinition, token)``

  Where ``typeDefinition`` is a type definition struct as seen in ``df.global.world.raws``

>   (e.g.: ``dfhack.gui.getSelectedItem().subtype``) and ``token`` is the name of the custom token

Author: "I can't find any item type of the 10 I checked with a subtype field" I don't understand this clause specifically, could you rephrase?

>   Where ``typeDefinition`` is a type definition struct as seen in ``df.global.world.raws``
>   (e.g.: ``dfhack.gui.getSelectedItem().subtype``) and ``token`` is the name of the custom token

Reviewer 2: Sure. I selected ~10 different items in-game, and for all of them, `dfhack.gui.getSelectedItem().subtype` gave me the following error (or similar):

```
(interactive):1: Cannot read field item_anvilst.subtype: not found.
stack traceback:
	[C]: in metamethod '__index'
	(interactive):1: in main chunk
	[C]: in function 'safecall'
	./hack/lua/dfhack.lua:612: in function 'dfhack.interpreter'
	../../code/dfhack/scripts/lua.lua:76: in local 'script_code'
	./hack/lua/dfhack.lua:775: in function 'dfhack.run_script_with_env'
	(...tail calls...)
```

so I am not sure what the example is intended to mean.

I think perhaps a better example could be
```suggestion
  Where ``typeDefinition`` is a type definition struct as seen in ``df.global.world.raws``
  (e.g.: an instance of ``df.creature_raw``) and ``token`` is the name of the custom token
```
if this is accurate.

>   (e.g.: ``dfhack.gui.getSelectedItem().subtype``) and ``token`` is the name of the custom token

Author: Oh, it's for stuff like weapons and armour and the like. Things with raw definitions. Barrels, anvils, blocks etc don't have any such thing.
